docs: README for v2 beta release (#1537)
google/osv-scanner: README.md

#### Underlying database

The underlying database, [OSV.dev](https://osv.dev/) has several benefits in comparison with closed source advisory databases and scanners:

- Covering most open source language and OS ecosystems (including [Git](https://osv.dev/list?q=&ecosystem=GIT)), it’s comprehensive.
- Each advisory comes from an open and authoritative source (e.g. [GitHub Security Advisories](https://github.com/github/advisory-database), [RustSec Advisory Database](https://github.com/rustsec/advisory-db), [Ubuntu security notices](https://github.com/canonical/ubuntu-security-notices/tree/main/osv))
- Anyone can suggest improvements to advisories, resulting in a very high quality database.
- The OSV format unambiguously stores information about affected versions in a machine-readable format that precisely maps onto a developer’s list of packages

The above all results in accurate and actionable vulnerability notifications, which reduces the time needed to resolve them. Check out [OSV.dev](https://osv.dev/) for more details!

## Basic installation

> To install OSV-Scanner, please refer to the [installation section](https://google.github.io/osv-scanner/installation) of our documentation. OSV-Scanner releases can be found on the releases page of the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/google/osv-scanner/releases). The recommended method is to download a prebuilt binary for your platform. Alternatively, you can use  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install OSV-Scanner, please refer to the [installation section](https://google.github.io/osv-scanner/installation) of our documentation. OSV-Scanner releases can be found on the [releases page](https://github.com/google/osv-scanner/releases) of the GitHub repository. The recommended method is to download a prebuilt binary for your platform. Alternatively, you can use  
```

| Distro Support | Language Artifacts Support |
| -------------- | -------------------------- |
| Alpine OS      | Go                         |
| Debian         | Java                       |
| Ubuntu         | Node                       |
|                | Python                     |

See the [full documentation](https://google.github.io/osv-scanner/supported-languages-and-lockfiles/#supported-artifacts) for details on support.

**Usage**:

`$ osv-scanner scan image my-image-name:tag`

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9e3e9c59-1948-45ab-9717-61fcbe3c7cc3)

### [License Scanning](https://google.github.io/osv-scanner/experimental/license-scanning/) (Experimental)

Check your dependencies' licenses using deps.dev data. For a summary:

`osv-scanner --experimental-licenses-summary path/to/repository`

To check against an allowed license list (SPDX format):

`osv-scanner --experimental-licenses="MIT,Apache-2.0" path/to/directory`

### [Offline Scanning](https://google.github.io/osv-scanner/experimental/offline-mode/) (Experimental)

> Scan your project against a local OSV database. Requires a pre-downloaded database. No network connection is needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scan your project against a local OSV database. No network connection is required after the initial database download. The database can also be manually downloaded.
```

> `osv-scanner --experimental-offline ./path/to/your/dir`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`osv-scanner --experimental-offline --experimental-download-offline-databases ./path/to/your/dir`
```

#### Supported Lockfiles

OSV-Scanner supports 11+ language ecosystems and 19+ lockfile types. To check if your ecosystem is covered, please check out our [detailed documentation](https://google.github.io/osv-scanner/supported-languages-and-lockfiles/#supported-lockfiles).

### [Container Scanning](https://google.github.io/osv-scanner/usage/scan-image)

OSV-Scanner also supports comprehensive, layer-aware scanning for container images to detect vulnerabilities the following operating system packages and language-specific dependencies.

| Distro Support | Language Artifacts Support |
| -------------- | -------------------------- |
| Alpine OS      | Go                         |
| Debian         | Java                       |
| Ubuntu         | Node                       |
|                | Python                     |

See the [full documentation](https://google.github.io/osv-scanner/supported-languages-and-lockfiles/#supported-artifacts) for details on support.

**Usage**:

`$ osv-scanner scan image my-image-name:tag`

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9e3e9c59-1948-45ab-9717-61fcbe3c7cc3)

> ### [License Scanning](https://google.github.io/osv-scanner/experimental/license-scanning/)
> 
> OSV-Scanner supports license checking as an experimental feature. The data comes from the [deps.dev](https://deps.dev) API. If you want a summary of your dependencies licenses, use the `--experimental-licenses-summary` flag:
> 
> `$ osv-scanner --experimental-licenses-summary path/to/repository`
> 
> To set an allowed license list and see the details of packages that do not conform, use the `--experimental-licenses` flag:
> 
> `$ osv-scanner --experimental-licenses="comma-separated list of allowed licenses" path/to/directory`
> 
> Include your allowed licenses as a comma-separated list. OSV-Scanner recognizes licenses in SPDX format. Please indicate your allowed licenses using SPDX license identifiers.
> 
> ### [Offline Scanning](https://google.github.io/osv-scanner/experimental/offline-mode/)
> 
> OSV-Scanner now supports offline scanning. Offline scanning checks your project against a local database instead of calling the OSV.dev API.
> 
> The offline database flag --experimental-offline causes OSV-Scanner to scan your project against a previously downloaded local database. OSV-Scanner will not download or update the local database, nor will it send any project or dependency information anywhere. When a local database is not present, you will get an error message. No network connection is required when using this flag.
> 
> `$ osv-scanner --experimental-offline ./path/to/your/dir`
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### [License Scanning](https://google.github.io/osv-scanner/experimental/license-scanning/)

Check your dependencies' licenses using deps.dev data. For a summary:

`osv-scanner --experimental-licenses-summary path/to/repository`

To check against an allowed license list (SPDX format):

`osv-scanner --experimental-licenses="MIT,Apache-2.0" path/to/directory`

### [Offline Scanning](https://google.github.io/osv-scanner/experimental/offline-mode/)

Scan your project against a local OSV database.  Requires a pre-downloaded database. No network connection is needed.

`osv-scanner --experimental-offline ./path/to/your/dir`
```

### Scanning a source directory

`osv-scanner scan source -r /path/to/your/dir`  
This command will recursively scan the specified directory for any supported package files, such as `package.json`, `go.mod`, `pom.xml`, etc. and output any discovered vulnerabilities.

OSV-Scanner has the option of using call analysis to determine if a vulnerable function is actually being used in the project, resulting in fewer false positives, and actionable alerts.

OSV-Scanner can also detect vendored C/C++ code for vulnerability scanning. See [here](https://google.github.io/osv-scanner/usage/#cc-scanning) for details.

For advanced usage, please check out the [documentation](https://google.github.io/osv-scanner/usage).

#### Supported Lockfiles

OSV-Scanner supports 11+ language ecosystems and 19+ lockfile types. To check if your ecosystem is covered, please check out our [detailed documentation](https://google.github.io/osv-scanner/supported-languages-and-lockfiles/).

### Container Scanning

> OSV-Scanner also supports comprehensive, layer-aware scanning for container images to detect vulnerabilities the following operating system packages and language-specific dependencies.

Reviewer: Link to the container scanning docs here somewhere.

> - Alpine
> - Debian
> - Ubuntu
> - Go
> - Java
> - Node
> - Python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Distro Support | Language Artifacts Support |
| -------------- | -------------------------- |
| Alpine OS      | Go                         |
| Debian         | Java                       |
| Ubuntu         | Node                       |
|                | Python                     |
```

> | Debian dpkg/apt packages | `/var/lib/dpkg/status`             |

Reviewer: Hmm yeah looking at this including the example files is too verbose, I think let's just have a list of supported OSes and languages here (Also add ubuntu, I forgot about that one in the doc), i.e.

- Alpine
- Debian
- Ubuntu

- Go
- Java
- Node
- Python

See <link to supported languages docs> for details on support.

Author: Done :)

`go install github.com/google/osv-scanner/cmd/osv-scanner@v2.0.0-beta1`.

## Key Features

Please note: These are the instructions for the latest OSV-Scanner V2 beta. If you are using V1, checkout the V1 [README](https://github.com/google/osv-scanner-v1) and [documentation](https://google.github.io/osv-scanner-v1/) instead. 

### Scanning a source directory

`osv-scanner scan source -r /path/to/your/dir`  
This command will recursively scan the specified directory for any supported package files, such as `package.json`, `go.mod`, `pom.xml`, etc. and output any discovered vulnerabilities.

For advanced usage, please check out the [documentation](https://google.github.io/osv-scanner/usage).

#### Supported Lockfiles

OSV-Scanner supports 11+ language ecosystems and 19+ lockfile types. To check if your ecosystem is covered, please check out our [detailed documentation](https://google.github.io/osv-scanner/supported-languages-and-lockfiles/). 

### Container Scanning

> OSV-Scanner also supports comprehensive, layer-aware scanning for container images to detect vulnerabilities in operating system packages and language-specific dependencies.

Author: I have updated this - does it make sense?

`$ osv-scanner scan image my-image-name`

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9e3e9c59-1948-45ab-9717-61fcbe3c7cc3)

> ### Guided Remediation (experimental)

Reviewer: Probably insert License scanning and offline scanning as sections here, as they go with vulnerability scanning, and we are moving them out of experimental by the full v2 launch.

Author: Do the flags for these still include 'experimental' in them, or should I adjust the README docs to exclude that?

Reviewer 2: They're still experimental for now in the beta, but for the final v2, we'll remove the experimental bits from license scanning and offline scanning.

Author: Awesome, I'll leave as is then :)

OSV-Scanner provides guided remediation, a feature that suggests package version upgrades based on criteria such as dependency depth, minimum severity, fix strategy, and return on investment.    
We currently support remediating vulnerabilities in the following files:

> | Ecosystem | File Format (Type) | Supported [Remediation Strategies](#remediation-strategies) |

Reviewer 3: remove the anchor link on Remediation Strategies

| :---- | :---- | :---- |
| npm | `package-lock.json` (lockfile) | [`in-place`](https://google.github.io/osv-scanner/experimental/guided-remediation/#in-place-lockfile-remediation) |
| npm | `package.json` (manifest) | [`relock`](https://google.github.io/osv-scanner/experimental/guided-remediation/#in-place-lockfile-remediation) |
| Maven | `pom.xml` (manifest) | [`override`](https://google.github.io/osv-scanner/experimental/guided-remediation/#override-dependency-versions) |

This is available as a headless CLI command, as well as an interactive mode.

#### Example (for npm)

`$ osv-scanner fix \--max-depth=3 \--min-severity=5 \--ignore-dev  \--non-interactive \--strategy=in-place \-L path/to/package-lock.json`

#### Interactive mode (for npm)

`$ osv-scanner fix -M path/to/package.json -L path/to/package-lock.json `

<img src="https://google.github.io/osv-scanner/images/guided-remediation-relock-patches.png" alt="Screenshot of the interactive relock results screen with some relaxation patches selected">

More information can be found [here](https://google.github.io/osv-scanner/experimental/guided-remediation/).

> ### Call analysis

Reviewer: I would remove the Call analysis and C++ sections, and just list them as short bullet points under source scanning, since they go with that part of the scan process only.

### Contributing code to `osv-scanner`

> See [CONTRIBUTING.md](http://CONTRIBUTING.md) for documentation on how to contribute code.

Reviewer 3: This should not be linking to the website http://contributing.md - the original seems to link correctly to the `CONTRIBUTING.md` file in the repo.
